blog(embertimes112): fun state management (#247)
ember-learn/ember-blog: source/2019-08-23-the-ember-times-issue-112.md

---

## [Fun State Management With Ember and Microstates 💡](https://medium.com/@brandynlbennett/fun-state-management-with-ember-and-microstates-e6027a9dedb9)

> [@brandynbennett](https://github.com/brandynbennett) details his experience using [Microstates.js](https://github.com/microstates/microstates.js) as an alternative to [DDAU](https://discuss.emberjs.com/t/readers-questions-what-is-meant-by-the-term-data-down-actions-up/15311) in creating complex tables in their UI that require a lot of state to be passed around. The DDAU strategy, in this scenario, was unwieldy due to the number of arguments needed to set and difficult to keep in sync as they had to refetch the data for each event such as a sort happens.

Reviewer: What do you think about the following?

```suggestion
[@brandynbennett](https://github.com/brandynbennett) details his experience using [Microstates.js](https://github.com/microstates/microstates.js) as an alternative to [DDAU](https://discuss.emberjs.com/t/readers-questions-what-is-meant-by-the-term-data-down-actions-up/15311). He describes how him and his team created complex tables in their app's UI that requires a lot of state to be passed around. The DDAU strategy, in this scenario, was unwieldy due to the number of arguments needed to set and difficult to keep in sync as they had to refetch the data for each event such as a sort happens.
```

[Microstates.js](https://github.com/microstates/microstates.js) provided immutability so that any change to the state will make all the `didReceiveAttrs` hooks and computed properties update while also guarding it from being changed by child components. It also provided helpers and macros that would automatically update the component properties when the state has changed, eliminating the need to pass an action for each piece of state.

> Read the [full blog](https://medium.com/@brandynlbennett/fun-state-management-with-ember-and-microstates-e6027a9dedb9) to see the tradeoffs and potential pitfalls when state management is done with Ember and Microstates.

Reviewer: What do you think about:

```suggestion
Read the [full blog post](https://medium.com/@brandynlbennett/fun-state-management-with-ember-and-microstates-e6027a9dedb9) to see the tradeoffs and potential pitfalls when state management is done with Ember and Microstates.
```
